Notes and Questions
OOP: Object Oriented Programming
is easy as PIE: Polymorphism, Inheritance, Encapsulation

Encapsulation: keeping classes independent so that changing one
one will not mess up another one. Loosely coupled system.
    This involves which inputs you allow(constructors)
    access modifiers:
        public: anyone who imports pkg has access to classes where ever they are
        imported.
        private: can only be declared in the class it was written.
        protected: used to create a base-class, any derivative class can access
        default: we shouldn't be using
        static: belongs to the class, not the specific implementations(object)
        final: whatever follows cannot be changed through = operator
    constructors allow for different instances of a method to be instanced
    as separate objects. think the 2 different types of .substring: .substring(n)
    or .substring(n, m)

Interfaces have variables' whos names are defined by the interfaced method they
    call, ie: int getStuff();

Try adding ternary statements to the .substring(n, HERE); to not get an
index-Out-Of-Bounds-Error!!



Do interfaces compile at the same time as statics? Referring to the last Question
    of quiz wherein the interface called both .getArea and .getPerimeter. If not
    is it because the class implements the interface in it's declaration?------
    NOPE the interface checks its dependencies, and if there is a missing reference
    the compiler fails


IT PROFESSIONALS PANEL
All our resumes will look the same, find the way to pop!!!
How can I have the "clout" as a junior hire to push for changes to larger projects?

meetups and involvement
philly jug meetup
reactadelphia meetup
comcast devops
microsoft devacentral

JOBS IN TECH
1-3 years as junior dev
years 2-4 mid level dev
after 5-6 years senior level

Some Top levels Earnable:
VP of Engineering
CTO
Principal Engineer
Chief Scientist

SQL Stuff

Data Query Language: Select statement
Data Manipulation Language: Update, Insert, Delete statements
Data Definition Language: Create statements
Data Control Language: Grant, Revoke statements
Transaction Control Language: Begin, Transaction, Commit, Rollback statements

SELECT columns, Count(*) FROM table WHERE rows are true ORDER BY same data in column ASC/DESC;
|| is the concatenation operator, ABS() gives the absolute value of a piece of data
limit the number of returned rows by the LIMIT n keyword after the order by
Count() returns an incremented number for each instance of it's count target
Max() returns max value, MIN() for minimum, SUM() for sum total
AVG() returns average of all values within column

FLA for SQL statements
C.reate
R.ead
U.pdate
D.elete

Syntax for an INSERT statement
INSERT INTO table_name (column1, column2, column3, ...)
VALUES (value1, value2, value3, ...);

Syntax for an UPDATE statement Make as SELECT first
UPDATE table_name SET column1 = value1, column2 = value2, ...
WHERE condition;

Syntax for a DELETE statement Make as SELECT first
DELETE FROM table_name
WHERE condition;

transactions are blocks of SQL statements that either all run, or if one fails
none work
they are started with syntax BEGIN TRANSACTION;
they are committed with COMMIT TRANSACTION;

ACID test for SQL transactions
-atomicity: all or nothing transactions
-consistency: guarantees committed transaction state
-isolation: transactions are independent
-durability: committed data is never lost

IN CREATING A TABLE:

CREATE TABLE tablename(
table_id serial NOT NULL,
firstname varchar(45) NOT NULL,
lastname varchar(45) NOT NULL.
CONSTRAINT pk_tablename_table_id PRIMARY KEY (table_id)
CONSTRAINT ck_tablename_lastname CHECK (lastname IN ('Knight', 'Flood', 'James'))
);

Typically foreign keys are not included in creation statements because not all tables are necessarily created,
instead we will add them after all tables are added like this:
ALTER TABLE bridge_table_name #where rk will be
ADD FOREIGN KEY(table_id)
REFRENCES tablename(table_id); #where pk is



SPRING BOOT
Annotations:
@Component- adds DAO into the spring app, this makes it auto-detectable.
@RestController-intakes url queries and helps send them to the right request mapping
@RequestMapping-maps url from controller to a method
@path-defines specific url this method will trigger upon
@method-defines the http method to expect
@RequestParam(required=false)-this will make a java variable from the info behind a ? in a url
@PathVariable-defines a variable in java that existed in the url between curly brackets
@RequestBody-defines what will bw in the body of the incoming request, often used in post/put
Validations: All have a message parameter to send message upon failure
@NotNull	    Any	The variable can't be null.
@NotEmpty	    Array, List, String	The variable can't be null. Also, if it's a list or array, it can't be empty. If it's a String, it can't be an empty string.
@NotBlank	    String	The variable can't be empty or only contain white space characters.
@Min	        Int, long, BigDecimal	The variable must have a value greater than the specified minimum. Null values are skipped.
@DecimalMin	    BigDecimal	The variable must have a value greater than the specified minimum decimal. Null values are skipped.
@Size	        Array, List, String	The variable length, as an array, List, or String, must be within the bounds specified. Null values are skipped.
@Past, @Future	Date, LocalDate	The variable must represent a date in the past/future. Null values are skipped.
@Pattern	    String	The variable must hold a value that matches the specified regular expression. Null values are skipped.
@Email          Checks to see if input string is in an email format

@ResponseStatus( code = HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND, reason = "Reservation not found.")
this throws an error 404 not found when the url is not looking for the correct information

Spring Knows All These Work Together... Woah.












PATHWAY INTERVIEW PANEL

Mike borrelli PNC- look up company and interviewer if you know who it is, body language and eyecontact are even more 
    important now interviews are on zoom. SHOW WHAT YOUR VALUE ADDED IS! dont fit the culture, improve it.
Daniel krupansky- practice interviews, know what questions will be asked
TJ Hazinsky- make sure people can hear you, research the interview style
Melissa Sharp JPMC- differentiate yourself in a way. Think about compound questions**(write them down)**
Miguel Guerreiro- Go in depth when talking about roles in technical projects... But still be converstaional. 
    dress to impress

RED FLAGS
does not listen to questions and information, interrupted, save questions for the end, be focused on the interview!!


Authentication- proves you are who you say you are
Authorization- provides what you are allowed to do to the system

